README.md, before:

# Advent of Code

🎅🎄🕯️ my solutions to advent of code in a variety of different programming
languages

## table of contents

- [table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [languages](#languages)
  - [io](#io)
    - [useful io references](#useful-io-references)
  - [JavaScript](#javascript)
    - [useful JavaScript references](#useful-javascript-references)
  - [k](#k)
    - [useful k references](#useful-k-references)
- [TODO](#todo)
- [links to aoc years](#links-to-aoc-years)

## languages

Here are the languages I use(d) for advent of code.

### io

The [io](https://iolanguage.org) language is a cool, more experimental,
programming language.

#### used io librarys

- [md5](https://github.com/IoLanguage/MD5)

#### useful io references

- [io guide](https://iolanguage.org/guide/guide.html)
- [io tutorial](https://iolanguage.org/tutorial.html)
- [io samples](https://iolanguage.org/samples/index.html)
- [io references](https://iolanguage.org/reference/index.html)

### JavaScript

For JavaScript I am _currently_ using [Deno](https://github.com/denoland/deno).
This means that Code might not be able to be run with another JavaScript
Runtime.

#### used JavaScript librarys

- [encoding](https://jsr.io/@std/encoding)
- [md5](https://jsr.io/@takker/md5)

#### useful JavaScript references

- [deno docs](https://docs.deno.com)
- [jsr](https://jsr.io)
- [mdn web dcos JavaScript references](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference)

### k

Currently I use the [kona](https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona) k dialect(?).
Other k runtimes and dialects can be found
[here](https://k.miraheze.org/wiki/Running_K).

#### useful k references

- https://aplwiki.com/wiki/K
- https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona/wiki/K-99:-Ninety-Nine-K-Problems
- https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona/wiki/Csv-loading-and-dictionary
- https://xpqz.github.io/kbook/Introduction.html
- https://nsl.com/k/training/kreflite.pdf
- https://cosy.com/K/CoSy/K_CoSy.htm
- https://nsl.com/k/training/idioms_K3.pdf
- https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona/wiki/Idioms
- https://nsl.com/k/
- http://hakank.org/k/

## TODO

- Add automation to:
  - run code
  - download input files
- Standardise file reading etc

## links to aoc years

- [2015](https://adventofcode.com/2015)
- [2016](https://adventofcode.com/2016)
- [2017](https://adventofcode.com/2017)
- [2018](https://adventofcode.com/2018)
- [2019](https://adventofcode.com/2019)
- [2020](https://adventofcode.com/2020)
- [2021](https://adventofcode.com/2021)
- [2022](https://adventofcode.com/2022)
- [2023](https://adventofcode.com/2023)
- [2024](https://adventofcode.com/2024)

Commit message:

feat: added lua and wren

README.md, after:

# Advent of Code

🎅🎄🕯️ my solutions to advent of code in a variety of different programming
languages

## table of contents

- [table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [languages](#languages)
  - [io](#io)
    - [used io librarys](#used-io-librarys)
    - [useful io references](#useful-io-references)
  - [JavaScript](#javascript)
    - [used JavaScript librarys](#used-javascript-librarys)
    - [useful JavaScript references](#useful-javascript-references)
  - [k](#k)
    - [useful k references](#useful-k-references)
- [TODO](#todo)
- [links to aoc years](#links-to-aoc-years)

## languages

Here are the languages I use(d) for advent of code.

### io

The [io](https://iolanguage.org) language is a cool, more experimental,
programming language.

#### used io librarys

- [md5](https://github.com/IoLanguage/MD5)

#### useful io references

- [io guide](https://iolanguage.org/guide/guide.html)
- [io tutorial](https://iolanguage.org/tutorial.html)
- [io samples](https://iolanguage.org/samples/index.html)
- [io references](https://iolanguage.org/reference/index.html)

### JavaScript

For JavaScript I am _currently_ using [Deno](https://github.com/denoland/deno).
This means that Code might not be able to be run with another JavaScript
Runtime.

#### used JavaScript librarys

- [Combinatorics](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-combinatorics)
- [encoding](https://jsr.io/@std/encoding)
- [md5](https://jsr.io/@takker/md5)

#### useful JavaScript references

- [deno docs](https://docs.deno.com)
- [jsr](https://jsr.io)
- [mdn web dcos JavaScript references](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference)

### k

Currently I use the [kona](https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona) k dialect(?).
Other k runtimes and dialects can be found
[here](https://k.miraheze.org/wiki/Running_K).

#### useful k references

- https://aplwiki.com/wiki/K
- https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona/wiki/K-99:-Ninety-Nine-K-Problems
- https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona/wiki/Csv-loading-and-dictionary
- https://xpqz.github.io/kbook/Introduction.html
- https://nsl.com/k/training/kreflite.pdf
- https://cosy.com/K/CoSy/K_CoSy.htm
- https://nsl.com/k/training/idioms_K3.pdf
- https://github.com/kevinlawler/kona/wiki/Idioms
- https://nsl.com/k/
- http://hakank.org/k/

### lua

I either use [Lua](https://www.lua.org) or [LuaJit](https://luajit.org) for stuff. It is indeed a fast language.

### wren

Wren is a smaller language that is intended to be an embeded langauges.
But the [wren-cli](https://github.com/wren-lang/wren-cli) and
[wren-console](https://github.com/joshgoebel/wren-console) are ways to run wren
on the command line.

## TODO

- Add automation to:
  - run code
  - download input files
- Standardise file reading etc

## links to aoc years

- [2015](https://adventofcode.com/2015)
- [2016](https://adventofcode.com/2016)
- [2017](https://adventofcode.com/2017)
- [2018](https://adventofcode.com/2018)
- [2019](https://adventofcode.com/2019)
- [2020](https://adventofcode.com/2020)
- [2021](https://adventofcode.com/2021)
- [2022](https://adventofcode.com/2022)
- [2023](https://adventofcode.com/2023)
- [2024](https://adventofcode.com/2024)
